# Text Simplifier
A Java command line application allowing a user to simplify text entered to the console using a thesaurus generated by the user.

## About
The application prompts the user to create a "thesaurus". The user is then prompted to enter text to the console to be simplified using this thesaurus.
The program works with two .txt files provided by the user. When the program is run, the user is prompted to enter the paths to these files. The files are:

1. A _dictionaryFile_, which holds a list of words to which words in text entered by the user will be switched.

  - Each word in the dictionaryFile should appear on a new line by itself.

2. A _wordListFile_, which holds a list of _groups_ of words. Each of these words can be identified in any text entered to the console by the user and will be subsequently swapped for an analogous word in the dictionaryFile.

  - Each group of related words in the wordListFile should appear on a single line, with each word separated by a comma character.

  - In order for a group of related words to be associated with a "simplified" word in the dictionaryFile, the simplified word __must appear in that group of words in the wordListFile__

The idea is that words in the wordListFile are grouped into groups of words that have the same or a similar meaning. Each word in the dictionaryFile should be the same as one word that appears in a group of words found in the wordListFile. If a group of words in the wordListFile does not contain a word from the dictionaryFile, the entire group is omitted from the thesaurus that is created when the program is run. This allows the program to relate an entire group of words from the wordListFile with a single word in the dictionaryFile. Thus, any word that appears in the wordListFile can be swapped with its synonym from the dictionaryFile when the program is run.

### Example
A default _dictionaryFile.txt_ and _wordListFile.txt_ are included to illustrate the basic operation of the program.

_dictionaryFile.txt_ contains the first 10 nouns included in the 25 most common nouns in the English language listed on Wikipedia [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Most_common_words_in_English#Parts_of_speech).

_wordListFile.txt_ contains synonyms for these words generated by [Thesaurus.com](https://www.thesaurus.com/).

_dictionaryFile.txt_
> man  
> world  
> life

_wordListFile.txt_
> __man__, brother, father, fellow, guy, he, husband, son  
> __world__, earth, nature  
> __life__, activity, growth, heart, soul  

_Text Entered to Console_
> This __fellow__ was interested in the __nature__ of __growth__

_Simplified Text_
> This __man__ was interested in the __world__ of __life__

#### Note
General use will involve a greater number of words, and the words chosen for use in the project are sometimes nonsense. They are here simply to illustrate the operation of the program.

### Compatibility
The program was written working with Java 8. (1.8.0_212). It has not been tested in any other environment.

## Usage
When the program starts, the user is prompted to enter the path of a text file to be used as the dictionaryFile and then a text file to be used as the wordListFile. By default, these files are __../dictionaryFile.txt__ and __../wordListFile.txt__.
Once these files have been confirmed, the program constructs a `Thesaurus` object from them. This is then used by the `TextSimplifier`class to swap words from any text input to the console.

The user is then prompted to enter text to be simplified. The user is informed that return text will include swapped words in green and unswapped words in red.
When the user enters text to the console, each word is checked to see if it exists in the `Thesaurus` currently in use. If so, the word is swapped. If not, the word is left as is. The result of this operation is then printed back to the console, colour coded as specified above.
At any time, the user can enter '__q__' into the console to quit the program, or '__c__' to configure the program with a new dictionaryFile or WordListFile.
Details of the usage of individual classes and methods are provided in the [JavaDocs](docs/).

### 1. Startup
#### Entering the path to a dictionary file
- Prompts user to input the path to dictionary file to be used
- Tells user what the current dictionary file is
- Prompts user to enter '__a__' to accept the dictionary file currently in use

#### Entering the path to a word list file
- Prompts user to input the path to word list file to be used
- Tells user what the current word list file is
- Prompts user to enter '__a__' to accept the word list file currently in use

### 2. Usage
- Prompts user to enter text to be simplified
- When text has been entered, swaps the appropriate words and prints the colour-coded result to the console
- Prompts user to enter '__q__' to quit the program
- Prompts user to enter '__c__' to configure the thesaurus with a new dictionary file and / or word list file

## Interfaces & Abstract Class
The program defines several interfaces and one abstract class to provide flexibility for a developer who wishes to alter its operation.

### TextSwapper
The `TextSwapper` interface declares methods for swapping all or part of input text with alternative text of the developer's choosing. Allows developer to define how input text should be processed in relation to a `Thesaurus`.

### WordMap
The `WordMap` interface declares methods for creating a `Map` to map `String`s to `String`s. Allows the developer to define how a word map or thesaurus should be created.

### Interactable
The `Interactable` interface declares methods for creating an interaction between the user and the Text Simplifier application.

### AbstractThesaurus
The `AbstractThesaurus` abstract class defines methods used to create a `Thesaurus`. The abstract methods `initialiseDictionaryString()` and `initialiseWordListString()` allow the developer to decide what types of sources the thesaurus can be built from.

In the `Thesaurus` class, the thesaurus is built using .txt files as input. The above abstract methods allow the thesaurus to be built from another source, such as keyboard input.

## UML
A UML file is included [here](text-simplifier.png) illustrating the structure of the program.

## Contact
### Barry Sheehan
* Home page: [BarrySheehan.com](http://www.barrysheehan.com)
* Twitter: [@barrymsheehan](https://twitter.com/barrymsheehan)

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.